This is the code I wrote for my research on AGN feedback and it's role in dwarf galaxy evolution. I set out to elucidate disparities in out understanding of feedback's role in galactic evolution between dwarf galaxies and massive galaxies; the paper's abstarct can be found below.

**Abstract**

Black holes (BHs) are thought to reside at the center of every galaxy in the known universe. Often taking the form of active galactic nuclei (AGN), these cosmic bodies regulate various interactions between themselves and their host galaxy. Our most widely used models, such as ΛCDM, accurately describe this coevolutionary relationship in massive galaxies (M* > 5 × 10^9 M⊙), however, a lack of certainty in the driving mechanisms behind AGN feedback in dwarf galaxies (M* < 5 × 10^9 M⊙) has limited previous research in further exploring such coevolutionary trends. This study assessed the role of feedback in four galactic populations: AGN-dominated dwarf galaxies (n = 531), star-forming (SF)-dominated dwarf galaxies (n = 2372), AGN-dominated massive galaxies (n = 4312), and SF-dominated massive galaxies  (n = 1466). In addition to AGN-dominated dwarf galaxies, our sample includes galaxies whose feedback is dominated by star formation, as well as massive galaxies; this enables us to isolate the effects of AGN feedback as much as possible. In each of the four populations, we analyzed Hα velocity dispersion and stellar quenching in relation to galaxy mass and species of feedback (AGN or SF). Results indicate that the relationship between these properties and galaxy mass is completely different in dwarf galaxies and massive galaxies. Notably, assessing stellar population ages indicated significantly lower levels of quenching in dwarf galaxies (t(1,835) = -15.017; p <  .001) when compared to massive galaxies. Additionally, galaxy mass correlated positively with velocity dispersion in both AGN (r ≈ .567, p < .001; n = 348) and SF (r ≈ .576, p < .001; n = 1882) dwarf galaxies, while in massive galaxies this relation exhibited a weak negative correlation in both AGN (r ≈ -.143, p < .001; n = 1403) and SF (r ≈ -.141, p < .001; n = 4140) populations. Given these results, we can reasonably conclude that AGN feedback, and therefore evolution, is driven differently between dwarf and massive galaxies. Furthermore, these results suggest that future research should re-evaluate the validity of current models in dwarf galaxy contexts.

The files contained within were used to extract date from the MaNGA survey of SDSS DR17, create plots to visiualize my results, and to conduct statistical tests. 

**In order for the code to operate as intended, it must be run in a Jupyter Notebook, within a container from SciServer running the "SciServer Essentials 2.0" image**

For each Jupyter Notebook file (.ipynb), there is an accopanying Python file (.py). When uploading the files to Jupyter Notebook, .ipynb files are strongly recommended however the Python files exist for anyone seeking that option.

When running the 'Sample Selection' code, the dwarf and massive galaxy files will generate .xlsx (Excel) files containing the MaNGA IDs for the AGN and SF dominated feedback galaxies in each mass group. If you do not want to run these code files, you can download the .xlsx files containing each cohort's MaNGA IDs in the folder titled 'MaNGA IDs'.                                                                                         

**IMPORTANT:** These .xlsx files are used in the other code files to determine which galaxies from the raw data are in the study's sample. The .xlsx files MUST be uploaded to the same directory as the code wishing to use them. 

For inquiries, I am availible at mgiambona86@gmail.com.
